so now we have seen where lti systems come
from. we've seen non linear models that
turn into very well behaved and pretty lti
systems. and we've seen non linear models
that don't necessarily produce useful lti
models. but a lot of systems do produce
useful lti models. and it's really our.
most systematic way of designing
controllers. and they are extremely useful
. so even though there aren't that many
bananas in the universe. a lot of things
act like bananas. so what we're going to
do now is, we're going to start by
understanding how these systems behave. so
what i'm going to do in this lecture is,
i'm actually going to find. the solutions
to these systems and once we have those
solutions we can start talking about how
they behave. and we're going to start by
simply ignoring the input and ignoring the
output. so we're going to start by just
saying that, let's say that i have x dot
is ax and at time t not, this is the time
when we wake up, we start somewhere. so
this is the, the physical part of the
system. not the thing that we bought
actuators for. not the thing that we
bought sensors for. it's just x dot is ax.
let's see what happens in that case. how
does the system behave or drift if you
will, when you're not messing with it. so
we need to solve x dot is ax. let's start
with a scalar version of this, where x is
just a number, right? so the scalar
version i'm going to write this x dot as
little ax. so this is a scalar version.
and i start some somewhere.
well, you may not know this, but if you
take in or see differential equations, the
solution to this differential equation is
actually given by x of t is e to the a, t
minus t not times, times x not. so here,
professor shows up and says, ohhh, this is
the solution to this differential
equation. now you clearly are critical
thinking people who don't just accept
anything the professor says, so what you
want to do now is make sure that this is
indeed correct. so how do you ensure that
what someone feeds you, say here's a
solution to differential equation, how do
you make sure that this is correct? how do
we know? well, the first thing you have to
do is make sure that the initial
conditions are right. meaning that, my
solution here actually respects this
initial condition. so what i'm going to
do, is, i'm just simply going to plug in t
not here, and see what i get. well, if i
do that, i get x of t not is e to the a. t
not minus t not times x not. well, this
thing is zero, right? so i get e to the
power zero x not. and e to the power zero
is always equal to one. so, the
exponential evaluated at zero is one. so x
of t not is equal x not. which means that
the initial condition is correct. so we're
done with this. now, clearly, we need to
deal with this, right? we need to make
sure that the dynamics is indeed correct.
so now i'm going to take the time
derivative of my proposed solution. so i'm
going to take d, dt of this thing, and see
what i get. well, the time derivative of
an exponential. all we do is we pull out
the coefficient there. so we're going to
pull out a, and write an extra a there,
that's all we do. and this is why
exponentials are so wonderful. so the time
derivative of x with respect to t is a
times what we have here? well that this
thing, this thing here that's x right. so
the prime derivative of x, my proposed x
is equal to a times x. well that's where
we started right. so what we now know is
that the dynamics is correct as well. and
if the initial conditions are right then
the dynamics is right. we know thanks to
the existence and uniqueness of solutions
to differential equations. that this is,
indeed, the right solution. now here is
the kicker. for higher order systems. so
now, x is in rn. we get the same solution.
we have x. is e to the at minus t not x
not here. well, now we have this, x dot is
the same thing. the only thing i did
different was i wrote capital a instead of
lowercase a. and the thing to keep in mind
here is that this is what's called a
matrix exponential, instead of a sc alar
exponential, which looks kind of, just a
little scary. but we're not scared of
matrix exponentials. in fact, what we do,
is we look up the definition of an
exponential. and an exponential, e to the
a t for scalars, well it's simple, simply
this sum. this is the definition of what,
the exponential is. well, here is just
multiplications, and we can write
multiplications for matrices as well. so,
the definition of a matrix exponential is
just this sum. now, it turns out that it's
actually not that important to us to be
able to compute matrix exponentials very
much. however, we need to know where they
come from. and they come from this sum.
and the reason why this is useful, it
actually allows us to compute the
derivative. of a matrix exponential. so
let's take the derivative, the time
derivative of this whole sum, right? so
this is the sum here. well the first term
that i'm going to do is i'm giong to,
going to pull out the k equal to zero term
here. so then i get a to the power zero
times t to the power zero divided by zero
factorial which is one. so this whole
thing is actually equal to one. and now
i'm going to take the time derivative of
one well the time derivative of one is a
big fat zero. so i'm going to pull out the
first term and then i'm going to take the
derivative, of the remaining terms with
respect to t. so all i get here is i get
an extra k. well, now i can rewrite
things, i can pull out then a and write
everything in terms of k minus 1 instead
of k here. but i'm summing from one to
infinity so if i shift my k now to see out
at infinity i get back this thing. so what
this means is that the time derivative of
e to the at is simply big a times e to the
at. so the matrix exponential behaves just
like the scalar exponential. that's all i
wanted to show with this slide is that,
even though this looks a little awkward,
we have these sums of matrix powers, all
it means is that we can take derivative of
matrix exponentials and trust that they
behave just like in the scalar case. in
fact, e to the a, t minus t not is such a
fundamental object in linear systems
theory. that it has, it has been given its
own name. it's known as the state
transition matrix. and sometimes, i'm
actually going to write big pi of t and t
not. and what we should then remember, and
probably i will remind you of it, is that
this is simply this matrix exponential.
that's all it means, but it will show up
quite a bit. okay.
x dot is ax. that means, in fact, that x
of t is e to the big a, t minus t not. x
of t naught or in general i can write it
on this form. it's this state transition
matrix which we now know is just a fancier
name for this matrix exponential. and it
turns out that it doesn't matter if it's t
naught or not, it's just whatever time
tao, well we just multiply what x was at
that time tao times the state transition
matrix. so this is simply code for x of t
is e to the a t minus tau, x at time tau.
so the point is that we know what the
solution to, to this equation actually is.
and the way you would show that this is
the solution is you would use the
following two properties. and i encourage
you to go home and do this. the first is
the thing we just established. which is
that the time derivative of pi is a tines
oi. the other is that, pi tt is the
identity. well, pi tt i just plug in a t
here instead of a t not. so, then i get e
to the power of zero, in the scalier case
that's one, in the matrix case that's the
identity matrix. so, that's the only
difference when you go matrix. fine, so
now we actually have a control system. so,
we have x dot is ax. plus bu, what
happens? well again, the professor goes
well, here's my claim, this is what i
claim that the solution is. this looks
like a mouthful doesn't it? it doesn't
look pleasant at all. some stuff, in fact
this is the thing we had when we had no b
matrix at all, at all and then we have
thing, thing here that's if you want to be
picky this is what's called a convolution,
but, we don't have to be calling it
convolution. all w e need to know is that,
you know what this is what we claim the
solution is. but how do we actually verify
that this is correct? well, we do exactly
what we did before. we have to check the
initial conditions and the dynamics. so
let's plug in t0 see if we get the right
thing. then we get pi. instead of t here,
i'm going to write t not. and then,
instead of t here and here. i'm going to
write t not and t not. okay.
let's see what this is. well, pi tt is
equal to the identity matrix, no matter
what t is, right? so this is the identity.
now, here's an integral between t not and
t not. so this is clearly zero. 'because
i'm just taking the integral over this.
individual points.
so this interval is zero. so what i have
is i have that x of t not is equal to what
it should be, x of t not. so we're going
to declare success on the initial
condition. now, we need to deal with
dynamics and that's harder. first of all,
we use the fact that if i take the
derivative of this, i get an a out. so the
first component is no big deal. but then
we have this awkward object here. we have
to take the derivative of an integral,
with respect to t, when t shows up both
here and here. and this, it's not a
trivial thing. in fact, what you need to
do, is you need to use something known as
rule.
that tells us that if i have a general
function here of t and tau and i take the
derivative of this thing with respect to
t. well, first this contribution here
translates into plugging in, instead of
tau i am plugging in t and then i am just
getting rid of the integral. that's the
first piece.the other piece is i pooled d
dt inside the interval and i have to take
the reverse of this thing. with respect to
t. so this is technically what we have to
do to compute this. so let's do that.
well, f t, t. well, let's pull it, pull
out this thing, and evaluate it at tau is
equal to t o' clock. then i get phi t, t
times bu of t. which, in fact, is simply u
of b, u of t, right? because this thing is
density matrix and then, i get the time
derivative of this thing. or, in other
words, the derivative of this with respect
to t. well, i know that that's an a that i
just have to pull out in the beginning. so
this is a little bit of a mouthful, i
realize, to that. so, take a deep breath,
and redo this computation, just so that
you believe it. but what happens when
you've done this, then. is, you can
actually pull out the a, and find that the
time derivative of my. proposed x is, big
a, times this whole thing, plus b times u.
and now, this whole thing is equal to the
same thing here. so instead of writing
this rather awkwards big expression, i'm
just going to write, x sub t here. or in
other words, d, xdt is ax plus bu which,
which is where we started. so we can
declare success also on the dynamics. so
to summarize, after all these pushups, and
i realize that today's lecture was a
little bit of a it was a little thorny in
terms of all the integrals and
derivatives. in fact, it was much thornier
than anything we've ever seen before. the
reason i needed to do it was not because i
think you guys need to be world champions
at applying rule.
i just want to be able to say the
following. that if i have x dot is ax plus
bu. y is cx.
then i can write y of t as c times x of t
where we computed the solution. so we
actually know that the output is given by
this thing in yellow here and you know
what? let's add another sweetheart to
this. so all these push ups just ended up
with us being able to write. explicitly
what the solution is. now, we're not going
to be able to or particularly interested
in actually computing this at all. but we
need to know it to move forward. so at the
end of this application of rule, what we
ended up with was an expression for the
output or the state if you want to get rid
of the c matrices of this general lti
system. and fi here, the thing to remember
is that phi known as the state transition
matrix was simply given by this matrix
exponential. what we're going to do now in
the next lecture is see h ow does this
actually translate into us. being able to
say things about how the system behaves.
and in particular, we're going to look at
stability.
